## This directory contains python scripts that can be used to run jobs on a PC
### The scripts are also called from the slurm scripts to schedule jobs in savio.

To perform any particular task one only needs to execute the correspoing `python3 TASK_NAME.py -c CONFIG_FILE.yml` script, where TASK_NAME is the name of the task to be scheduled and either provide the path to a configuration.yml file (by default located in the [`config folder`](../config)) - which will provide the script with the required (hyper)parameters - or pass them as command line arguments directly. 

Each python script comes with help strings (docstrings) and usage examples. To display help on a python script, execute the script using python and the flag `-h`[`--help`], 
e.g. `python3 tile_kfold.py -h`, or, `python3 tile_kfold.py --help` or import the script in an interactive session and execute `help(SCRIPT_NAME)`.  

The following sceduling scripts are provided (for more information inspect the docstrings in each script or use the help functionality):  
1. `evaluate.py`: For evaluating a trained model on a test set (requires that the test set has labels). Required parameters are provided in the [`evaluate.yml`](../config/evaluate.yml) configuration file.
2. `inference.py`: For performing inference (prediction) using a trained model on a (potentially new) dataset (does not require that the new dataset has labels). Required parameters are provided in the [`inference.yml`](../config/inference.yml) configuration file.
3. `tile_standard.py`: For tiling a satellite image, splitining it into train-validation and test sets and calculating balanging statistics (saved in the `dataset.csv` file). It can work on a simple satellite image (i.e. without any labels), on two images (i.e. satellite image plus labels) and can also accept a third image, a mask, to mask out areas that are not of interest (hence to economise on compute). Required parameters are provided in the [`tile.yml`](../config/tile.yml) configuration file.
4. `tile_kfold.py`: For tiling a satellite image, splitining it into train-validation and test sets using __kfold__ cross validation. It will also calculate balanging statistics (saved in the `dataset.csv` file) for each of the splits. It can work on a simple satellite image (i.e. without any labels), on two imaged (i.e. with labels) and can also accept a third image, a mask, to mask out areas that are not of interest (hence to economise on compute). Required parameters are provided in the [`tile_kfold.yml`](../config/tile_kfold.yml) configuration file.
5. `tile_with_overlap.py`: For tiling images for inference using 50% overlap between tiles and an extended padding (of 1/4 tile) along each side of the image. The overlap (together with the extended side padding) ensures that predictions for pixels in the central 1/2 part of each tile (i.e. between 1/4 tile to 3/4 tile, in both axis) will have "seen" context of, at least, 1/4 tiles and hence are likely to better deal with edge effects. When running evaluation with this tiling make sure to always use the relevant methods of evaluate.py. Required parameters are [provided here](../config/tile_with_overlap.yml).
6. `train.py`: For training a model on a dataset (requires that the dataset has labels). Required parameters are provided in the [`base.yml`](../config/base.yml) configuration file.
7. `reconstruct_map_from_tiles.py`: For reconstructing a slum map from prediction tiles. Required parameters are provided in the [`reconstruct.yml`](../config/reconstruct.yml) configuration file.
8. `overlay.py`: For overlaying a predicted slum map (reconstructed from prediction tiles with script 6 above) on a satellite image ('input_x'), optionally also including the true slum map (labels, 'input_y'). Predicted slums are depicted RED, true slums BLUE, intersection areas (i.e. when predicted and true coincide) MAGENTA and, if a mask ('input_z') is provided, then the non masked area will be highlighted in PALE GREEN. Required parameters are provided in the [`overlay.yml`](../config/overlay.yml) configuration file.
9. `join_datasets.py`: For joining together two or more datasets (i.e. their `dataset.csv` files) to create a composite `dataset.csv` that can be used for training/validation/testing. Requires a new line delimited file list with the full paths of the individual `dataset.csv` files (for a sample see [`datasets.lst`](../config/datasets.lst)) and the full path to the location (and name of) that the combined `*.csv` file will be saved..
10. `generate_shapefile.py`: Generates shapefiles from a reconstructed slum prediction map. Required parameters are provided in the [`generate_shapefile.yml`](../config/generate_shapefile.yml) configuration file.
12. `dataset_from_folder.py`/`kfold_dataset_from_folder.py`: Create a taining csv (dataset.csv)/kfold_dataset.csv file from a collection of tiles (and possibly labels) located in a folder. Required parameters are provided in files: [dataset_from_folder.yml](../config/dataset_from_folder.yml), [kfold_dataset_from_folder.yml](../config/kfold_dataset_from_folder.yml)
13. `resplit_dataset.py`: Resplits a tiled dataset to different train-validation-test set split. Required parameters are provided in [resplit_dataset.yml](../config/resplit_dataset.yml)
14. `create_register.py` : Combines all individual training registers, produced on completion of each training run (training_register.csv files) to produce a central register (another csv file) and places it in the root experiment folder. It should be re-run after new training runs. Parameters are fed as command line arguments (see the docstrings at the top of the file [create_register.py](./create_register.py) or execute `python3 create_register.py --help`).  
15. `run-hyperparameter_search.sh`: A local version of `schedule-hyperparameter_search.sh` script to enable running several local jobs, sequentially, with hyperparameter combinations provided as a tab delimited (and new line separated) list file [hyperparameter_search.lst](../config/hyperparameter_search.lst).  
16. `update_model_keys.py`: A short utility to change the names of layers in a saved checkpoint file (for compatibility with models saved with different naming conventions).  


__N.B.__:  
1. Other than modifying the parameters in the configuration.yml files, the user should not need to do anything else than run the relevant `schedule-TASK_NAME.sh` scripts.  
2. If python complains about packages not been found, when the scripts are run locally, try first navigating within this directory before running any of the scripts.  
